feat: Update Smart Wearables docs (#221)
decentraland/documentation: content/creator/wearables-and-emotes/manage-collections/uploading-smart-wearables.md

---
date: 2023-07-27
title: Uploading Smart Wearables
description: Guidelines to Upload Smart Wearables to the Editor
categories:
  - Decentraland
type: Document
aliases:
url: /creator/wearables-and-emotes/manage-collections/uploading-smart-wearables
weight: 4
---

> After generating your smart wearable using the [SDK7](/creator/development-guide/sdk7/smart-wearables/), the next step is to upload it to the builder. This document explains the process of uploading, publishing and putting Smart Wearables up for sale.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After generating your Smart Wearable using the [SDK7](/creator/development-guide/sdk7/smart-wearables/), the next step is to upload it to the builder. This document explains how to upload, publish, and put your Smart Wearables up for sale.
```

#### Uploading Your File

> Remember that you need to create a collection before you can upload your file. If you don’t know how to do that, check [Creating a Collection](/creator/wearables-and-emotes/manage-collections/creating-a-collection.md). To upload your smart wearable, just drag and drop the file on the **_New Item_** window or browse your computer. It will automatically detect if the file is a smart wearable. **Remember that the collection max file size is 2MB**.

Reviewer: Tiny suggestion regarding the redirection to the "Create Collection" docs:

```suggestion
Remember that you need to create a collection before uploading your file. If you don’t know how to do that, check [Creating a Collection](creator/wearables-and-emotes/manage-collections/creating-collection/). To upload your Smart Wearable, drag and drop the file on the **_New Item_** window or browse your computer. It will automatically detect if the file is a Smart Wearable. **Remember that the collection max file size is 2MB**.
```

<img src="/images/wearables-and-emotes/uploading-smart-wearables/01_new_item.png" width="400" />

When you upload the file, you will be asked to upload a video showcase.

#### Uploading Your Video Showcase

This video showcase will be displayed in the marketplace for buyers to see how the Smart Wearable works.

> To upload your video showcase, just drag and drop a **.mp4** video file on the **_Upload a video for your smart wearable_** window or browse your computer. **Remember that the video max file size is 4MB and max duration is 15 seconds**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To upload your video showcase, drag and drop a **.mp4** video file on the **_Upload a video for your Smart Wearable_** window or browse your computer. **Remember that the video max file size is 4MB and max duration is 15 seconds**.
```

<img src="/images/wearables-and-emotes/uploading-smart-wearables/01_new_video.png" width="400" />

> When you upload the video showcase, you will be asked to enter a name and define the rarity and the category. You can also add the thumbnail for the smart wearable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you upload the video showcase, you will be asked to enter a name and define the rarity and the category. You can also add a thumbnail for the Smart Wearable if you like.
```

> ### **Rarity**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Rarity
```

Select the Rarity of your item.

<img src="/images/wearables-and-emotes/uploading-smart-wearables/03_rarity.png" width="400"/>

| Rarity    | Number of Items |
| --------- | --------------- |
| Unique    | 1               |
| Mythic    | 10              |
| Legendary | 100             |
| Epic      | 1,000           |
| Rare      | 5,000           |
| Uncommon  | 10,000          |
| Common    | 100,000         |

> ### **Category**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Category
```

Wearables are organized into different categories, depending on what part of an avatar they modify. Select the appropriate category for your item.

> <img src="/images/wearables-and-emotes/uploading-smart-wearables/04_category.png" width="400"/>

Reviewer: WDYT about adding a table like the Rarity section showing the available categories?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Wearables are organized into different categories, depending on what part of an avatar they modify. In this step, you must select the appropriate item category.
```

> ### **Custom Thumbnails**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Custom Thumbnails
```

> You can add your own custom thumbnail by clicking on the camera icon and browsing your computer. **The thumbnail must be 256px square .png file with transparent background.** Collections containing thumbnails without transparent backgrounds will not be accepted by the Curation Committee.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can add your thumbnail by clicking on the camera icon and selecting the image you want from your computer. **Please ensure that the thumbnail is in a 256px square .png file format, with a transparent background.** Please note that the Curation Committee will not approve collections that have thumbnails without transparent backgrounds.
```

<img src="/images/wearables-and-emotes/uploading-smart-wearables/06_thumbnail.png" width="400"/>

{{< hint warning >}}

> ⚠️ Having a good render of your wearable is crucial in making it more appealing to potential users in the marketplace. **It's important to avoid adding any graphics other than the wearable itself, because this may cause the curation committee to reject it.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
⚠️ Having a good render of your Wearable is crucial for making it more appealing to potential Marketplace users. **It's important to avoid adding graphics other than the wearable itself because this may cause the Curation Committee to reject it.**
```

<img src="/images/wearables-and-emotes/uploading-smart-wearables/07_thumbnail.png" width="800" />
{{< /hint >}}

> ### **Update Video Showcase**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Update Video Showcase
```

> You can update your video showcase by clicking on the camera icon and browsing your computer. **The video max file size is 4MB and max duration is 15 seconds**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To update your video showcase, simply click on the camera icon and browse for the video on your computer. **Keep in mind that the maximum allowed file size is 4MB and the duration should not exceed 15 seconds**.
```

<img src="/images/wearables-and-emotes/uploading-smart-wearables/06_video.png" width="400"/>

> ### **Properties**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Properties
```

> Next to the thumbnail you're going to find the properties of your wearable, number of triangles of your model, number of materials and textures.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next to the thumbnail, you're going to find the properties of your wearable such as the number of triangles of your model, the number of materials, and the textures.
```

<img src="/images/wearables-and-emotes/uploading-smart-wearables/08_properties.png" width="400"/>

> ## **Uploading Mouth, Eyes and Eyebrows**

Reviewer: Do we need this section?
```suggestion
## Uploading Mouth, Eyes, and Eyebrows
```

The mouth, eyes and eyebrows category have a different behaviour in the editor because these are just .png files. To upload these just drag and drop the png file as a transparent image (256X256 pixels). Mouth is going to be automatically tinted by skin color, same for the eyebrows tinted by the hair color.

{{< hint warning >}} If you want the asset to be masked, so a part of the mouth or eyebrows is not affected by the tinting, upload a zip file with both the png and the mask files. Remeber that the mask file should have a suffix "\_mask" in order to work. {{< /hint >}}

<img src="/images/wearables-and-emotes/uploading-smart-wearables/02_mouth_wearable.png" width="300"/>

> After that uploading your wearables you will end up with a screen like this, that shows the items in your collection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After that uploading your Wearables you will end up with a screen like this, that shows the items in your collection.
```

> <img src="/images/wearables-and-emotes/uploading-smart-wearables/11_list_wearables.png" width="900"/>

Reviewer: If we are going to keep this section, I find it confusing that it talks about a mouth wearable that is not displayed later in the list of wearables on the collection detail page. WDYT?

> ## **Setting the Price of Your Smart Wearables**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Setting the Price of Your Smart Wearable
```

> You can set the price of your wearable by clicking on **_Set Price_**. This can all be edited anytime, so don’t worry if you want to change it later on. Prices are set in MANA. Remember that when you mint wearables, they are minted directly on Matic/Polygon. When a user purchases your item, the transaction will be conducted in Matic/Polygon MANA.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can set the price of your Wearable by clicking on **_Set Price_**. This can all be edited anytime, so don’t worry if you want to change it later. Prices are set in MANA. Remember that when you mint Wearables, they are minted directly on Matic/Polygon. Indeed, when a user purchases your item, the transaction will be conducted in Matic/Polygon MANA.
```

> You could also **_Make it Free_**, which means that the price will be set as 0 MANA and the beneficiary address will be null. Know that making it free (primary sale) does not prevent it from being sold at any price as a secondary sale.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You could also **_Make it Free_**, meaning the price will be 0 MANA, and the beneficiary address will be null. Please note that offering a product for free as a primary sale does not prevent it from being sold at any price as a secondary sale.
```

Don’t forget to set the beneficiary address, which is the one that will receive the MANA from your sales. You can use any Ethereum address you like. To automatically fill in the address you are logged in with, click **_I’m the Beneficiary._**

<img src="/images/wearables-and-emotes/uploading-smart-wearables/12_set_price.png" width="400"/>

> Save the price and you will be back to the list of wearables in your collection. When you click on the item, you will get its general info. Click on the button **_Preview in Editor_** to see it on the editor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Save the price, and you will be back on the list of Wearables in your collection. When you click on the item, you will get its general info. Click on the button **_Preview in Editor_** to see it in the editor.
```

<img src="/images/wearables-and-emotes/uploading-smart-wearables/13_click_item.png" width="900"/>

# The Editor

> Once you click on **_Preview in Editor_**, you will have the editor open. You can edit all the info of your smart wearable, as well as add new ones, such as description, tags and overrides.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you click on **_Preview in Editor_**, you will have the editor open. You can edit your Smart Wearable info, including the description, tags, and overrides.
```

<img src="/images/wearables-and-emotes/uploading-smart-wearables/14_editor.png" width="900"/>

> ## **Description**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Description
```

This is a brief statement describing your item that will be displayed in the marketplace.

> ## **Overrides**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Overrides
```

Overrides determine which Wearable categories or avatar body parts your item will hide. For instance, a hat with attached hair might need to hide the _Hair_ category. A deep-sea diver helmet may require hiding head accessories like earrings, eyewear, tiaras, etc., which wouldn’t be visible. Multiple options can be selected for each override.

- **Base Body**: This refers to core avatar parts like the _head_ and _hands_. For example, if you’re creating a **Handwear** item such as a robot mechanic hand, you’ll likely need to hide _hands_ to prevent overlap and clipping.

> - **Wearables**: This includes other Wearable categories. You can hide multiple categories. For more details on each category and how items interact, refer to **[Creating Wearables](https://docs.decentraland.org/creator/wearables/creating-wearables/)**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Wearables**: This includes other Wearable categories. You can hide multiple categories. Please take a look at **[Creating Wearables](/creator/wearables/creating-wearables/)** for more details on each category and how items interact.
```

{{< hint warning >}}

> Note: The overrides you select will be the suggested default settings for your Wearable. However, users can customize which Wearables are hidden or showing from the Backpack.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note: The overrides you select will be the suggested default settings for your Wearable. However, users can customize which Wearables are hidden or showing from the Backpack.
```

{{< /hint >}}

> ## **Tags**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Tags
```

Tags are descriptive words that users can utilize for competitions or events!

> ## **Preview**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Preview
```

> To preview your wearable, hover your mouse over the wearable icon on the top left and click on the eye symbol.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To preview your Wearable, hover your mouse over the icon on the top left and click on the eye symbol.
```

<img src="/images/wearables-and-emotes/uploading-smart-wearables/18_preview_smart_wearables_03.gif" />

> By clicking on the icon at the lower left you will be able to edit the avatar. This is pretty useful if you have a male and female version of your wearable, so make sure to check how both versions look like in editor, testing different emotes to identify if there are any skinning issues and mixing other wearables to see how it matches with different clothes. When you’re done editing your wearable, click on **_Save_**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By clicking on the icon at the lower left, you can edit the avatar. This is useful if you have a male and female version of your Wearable, so check how both versions look in the editor, testing different emotes to identify skinning issues and mixing other Wearables to see how it matches with other clothes. When you’re done editing your wearable, click on **_Save_**.
```

<img src="/images/wearables-and-emotes/uploading-smart-wearables/19_edit_avatar_wearable_03.gif" />

> ## **Testing in World**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Testing in Decentraland
```

> Even after testing the wearable in the editor, it’s important to check how it’s actually going to look like and behave in Decentraland. To test it in world, go to the Collections tab. Select the desired collection and click the button **_See in World_**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Even after testing the Wearable in the editor, it’s important to check how it will look and behave in Decentraland. To try it there, go to the Collections tab. Select the desired collection and click the button **_See in Decentraland_**.
```

<img src="/images/wearables-and-emotes/uploading-smart-wearables/20_test_in_world_01.png" width="900"/>

> After clicking the following pop up is going to appear. Selecting **_Empty Parcels_** will teleport you to a place without too much content, which will load faster. Selecting **_Genesis Plaza_** will take you to the main plaza.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After clicking the **_See in Decentraland_** button, the following pop-up is going to appear. On the one hand, selecting **_Empty Parcels_** will teleport you to a place without too much content, which will load faster. On the other hand, selecting **_Genesis Plaza_** will take you to the main plaza.
```

<img src="/images/wearables-and-emotes/uploading-smart-wearables/23_see_in_world.png" width="600"/>

> Once you select the location to teleport, a new tab will open on your browser and you will get this message.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you select the location to teleport, a new tab will open on your browser, and you will get this message.
```

<img src="/images/wearables-and-emotes/uploading-smart-wearables/21_sepolia.png" width="600"/>

> Click on **_Switch to Sepolia_** and a popup from your wallet will show up asking to switch the network. Simply click on Switch Network and the new tab will automatically refresh. To test your wearable, go to the backpack and select it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Click on **_Switch to Sepolia_**, and a pop-up from your wallet asking you to switch the network will show up. Click on Switch Network, and the new tab will automatically refresh. To test your Wearable, you can go to the backpack and select it.
```

{{< hint warning >}}
If you haven't enabled the Ethereum testnet networks, you can follow this [Metamask Article](https://support.metamask.io/hc/en-us/articles/13946422437147-How-to-view-testnets-in-MetaMask).
{{< /hint >}}

<img src="/images/wearables-and-emotes/uploading-smart-wearables/22_smart_wearable_world.gif" />

> ## **Before Publishing**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Before Publishing
```
